---
layout: post
title:  "Summer 2023"
info: "Blog"
#tech: "--"
type: Career 
---
## This Summer's Project

Here's the abstract from my grant proposal that sums up my work over summer 2023:

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a highly effective neurosurgical
treatment option for alleviation of Parkinson’s disease (PD)
symptoms that selectively confers favorable outcomes in some
patients over others. Despite the widespread use of DBS as a
second-line therapy for PD patients, there remains a lack of
evidence supporting the validity of specific clinical predictors
for DBS success. This serves as a barrier in the identification of
PD patients suitable for DBS therapy. Fractional anisotropy (FA)
derived from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is among the most
common MRI biomarkers of white matter microstructure in
diffusion MRI studies of neurodevelopment, brain aging, and
neurologic injury. It is regularly collected for PD patients who
undergo DBS therapy and thus has potential for serving as an
effective predictor for DBS response.


This project will assess and compare the predictive power of
tract-specific FA values for DBS outcomes in PD patients, which
can be approximated by pre- to post-operative difference in
patients’ daily PD medication dose. We will use DTI data and
outcome measures from 150 PD patients who underwent DBS
at UCSF. A novel segmentation method called automated fiber
quantification (AFQ) will be used to create a pipeline for
retrieving FA values of the corticospinal and
dentatorubrothalamic tracts, both of which are involved in PD
motor dysfunction. Through preserving diffusion measurement
information along white matter tracts, AFQ offers more
granularity than standard DTI analysis methods, allowing for
more comprehensive investigation of the relationship between
brain tissue integrity and DBS outcomes than was previously
possible.
